Add Import contacts into salesforce using FTP guide (#334)
wso2/ballerina-integrator: docs/learn/guides/saas-clients/sfdc46/import-contacts-into-salesforce-using-ftp/README.md

# Import Contacts Into Salesforce using FTP connector

## About

Ballerina is an open-source programming language that supports developers to integrate their system easily with the 
support of connectors. In this guide, we are mainly focusing on importing CSV file having contacts into Salesforce
using FTP connector. 

The `wso2/sfdc46` module allows you to perform CRUD operations for SObjects, query using SOQL, search using SOSL, and 
describe SObjects and organizational data through the Salesforce REST API. Also it supports insert, upsert, update, 
query and delete operations for CSV, JSON and XML data types which provides in Salesforce bulk API. It handles OAuth 
2.0 authentication.

The `wso2/ftp` module provides an FTP client and an FTP server listener implementation to facilitate an FTP connection 
to a remote location.

You can find other integrations modules from [wso2-ballerina](https://github.com/wso2-ballerina) Github organization.

## What you'll build

> This application listens to a remote FTP location and when CSV file appears (This CSV file contains contacts should be 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This application listens to a remote FTP location and when the CSV file appears (this CSV file contains contacts that should be 
```

> inserted to salesforce) it will fetch CSV file content and insert all the contacts in the CSV into Salesforce using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
added to Salesforce) it will fetch the CSV file content and insert all the contacts in the CSV file into Salesforce using
```

> `salesforceBulkClient` as a single batch. Then it will get the insertion result using `salesforceBulkClient` and the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`salesforceBulkClient` as a single batch. Then it will get the insertion result using `salesforceBulkClient` and if the
```

operation is successful, a success message is logged.

![import contacts to sfdc using ftp](../../../../../assets/img/import_contacts_to_sfdc_using_ftp.png)

## Prerequisites

> Link to download ballerina integrator.

Reviewer: You need Java and VS Code as well I think.

## Implementation

> The ballerina project should create for the integration use case explained above. Please follow the steps given below 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Ballerina project needs to be created for the integration use case explained above. Please follow the steps given below 
```

Let's change "ballerina" to "Ballerina" everywhere. Similarly change "ballerina integrator" to "Ballerina Integrator".

> to create the project and modules. You can learn about the ballerina project and modules in this [guide]().

Reviewer: Are we pointing to https://ei.docs.wso2.com/en/latest/ballerina-integrator/develop/using-modules/

> 1. Create a project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a new project.
```

    ```bash

>     ballerina new import-contacts-into-salesforce-using-ftp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $ ballerina new import-contacts-into-salesforce-using-ftp
```

Add the $ sign before all commands. Implement this everywhere in the doc.

    ```

> 2. Create a module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a module.
```

    ```bash

>     ballerina add guide

Reviewer: Shall we use a more intuitive name for this module?

Author: This is a convention we are following in the BI repo

    ```

>    The project structure should look like below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The project structure is created as indicated below.
```

    ```
    import-contacts-into-salesforce-using-ftp
        ├── Ballerina.toml
        └── src
            └── guide
                ├── Module.md
                ├── main.bal
                ├── resources
                └── tests
                    └── resources
    ```

3. Set up credentials for accessing Salesforce
   
   i. Visit [Salesforce](https://www.salesforce.com) and create a Salesforce Account.

   ii. Create a connected app and obtain the following credentials: 
    - Base URL (Endpoint)
    - Access Token
    - Client ID
    - Client Secret
    - Refresh Token
    - Refresh Token URL

>     Note:- When you are setting up the connected app, select the following scopes under Selected OAuth Scopes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **Note**: When you are setting up the connected app, select the following scopes under **Selected OAuth Scopes**:
```

    - Access and manage your data (api)
    - Perform requests on your behalf at any time (refresh_token, offline_access)
    - Provide access to your data via the Web (web)

   iii. Provide the client ID and client secret to obtain the refresh token and access token. For more information on 

>       obtaining OAuth2 credentials, go to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      obtaining OAuth2 credentials, see the 
```

      [Salesforce documentation](https://help.salesforce.com/articleView?id=remoteaccess_authenticate_overview.htm).

4. Set up remote FTP server and obtain the following credentials:
   - FTP Host
   - FTP Port
   - FTP Username
   - FTP Password

>    - Path in the FTP server which adding CSV files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Path in the FTP server to add CSV files
```

    Add the `src/guide/resources/contacts.csv` file to the FTP path you mentioned above.

> 5. Add project configuration file by creating `ballerina.conf` file under the root path of the project structure. This 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Add the project configuration file by creating a `ballerina.conf` file under the root path of the project structure. This 
```

   file should have following configurations. Add the obtained Salesforce configurations and FTP configurations
   to the file.

    ```
    SF_BASE_URL="<Salesforce base url (eg: https://ap15.salesforce.com)>"
    SF_ACCESS_TOKEN="<Salesforce access token>"
    SF_CLIENT_ID="<Salesforce client ID>"
    SF_CLIENT_SECRET="<Salesforce client secret>"
    SF_REFRESH_URL="<Salesforce refresh url (eg: https://login.salesforce.com/services/oauth2/token)>"
    SF_REFRESH_TOKEN="<Salesforce refresh token>"
    SF_NO_OF_RETRIES=<No of retries for getting inserion results (eg: 10)>
    FTP_HOST="<FTP host IP (eg: 192.168.112.8)>"
    FTP_PORT=<FTP host port (eg: 21)>
    FTP_USERNAME="<FTP username>"
    FTP_PASSWORD="<FTP password>"
    FTP_PATH="<Path in the FTP server you added conatats.csv (eg: /home/ftp-user/sfdc)>"
    FTP_POLLING_INTERVAL=<FTP listner polling interval (eg: 600000)>
    ```

> 6. Open the project with VSCode. The integration implementation going to write in the `src/guide/main.bal` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Open the project with VS Code. The integration implementation is written in the `src/guide/main.bal` file.
```

    **main.bal**
    <!-- INCLUDE_CODE: src/guide/main.bal -->

>     Here `ftpServerConnector` service is running on `remoteServer` which listens to the configured FTP server location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Here the `ftpServerConnector` service is running on `remoteServer`, which listens to the configured FTP server location.
```

>     When a CSV file added to the FTP server, file content will be retrieved and inserted into the Salesforce using 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When a CSV file is added to the FTP server, the file content will be retrieved and inserted into Salesforce using 
```

    `sfBulkClient`.

> ## Run the guide

Reviewer: Shall we call this "Testing"? I think that's the format we normally follow.

First let’s build the module. While being in the project root directory, execute the following command.

```bash
ballerina build guide
```

> This would create the executables. Now run the jar file created in the above step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This would create the executables. Now run the .jar file created in the above step.
```
